What's New 112 (#2499)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/css/css-overview-tool.md

   ![Microsoft Edge, with the TODO list demo app and DevTools, showing the Sources tool, with the file that contains a media query opened, at the right line](images/css-overview-tool-sources-tool.png)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Non-simple selectors

The **Non-simple selectors** section of the CSS overview report lists the CSS non-simple selectors found on the webpage.

> In CSS, simple selectors are selectors with only a single component (for example, a single id selector or type selector).  These selectors are not combined with other selector components or combinators.  All basic selectors, attributes, and single pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements are siple selectors.

Author: ```suggestion
In CSS, simple selectors are selectors with only a single component (for example, a single `id` selector or type selector).  These selectors are not combined with other selector components or combinators.  All basic selectors, attributes, and single pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements are simple selectors.
```

> Non-simple selectors are more complicated and tend to match more elements, potentially resulting in long-running **Recalculate Styles** events in the **Performance** tool.  You can try to change these selectors so that they are more specific and match fewer elements, reducing the amount of time the browser takes to calculate styles when:

Author: ```suggestion
Non-simple selectors are more complicated and tend to match more elements, potentially resulting in long-running **Recalculate Styles** events in the **Performance** tool.  You can try to change these selectors so that they are more specific and match fewer elements, reducing the amount of time the browser takes to calculate styles in the following cases:
```

> - Elements are added to or removed from the DOM.
> - An element's attributes are changed, such as `class` or `id`.
> - User input occurs, such as a mouse move or focus change, which can affect `:hover` rules.

Author: ```suggestion
- When elements are added to or removed from the DOM.
- When an element's attributes are changed, such as `class` or `id`.
- When user input occurs, such as a mouse move or a change of focus, which can affect `:hover` rules.
```

To see the list of non-simple selectors, on the overview report, click **Non-simple selectors** in the sidebar to scroll to the relevant section of the report:

![The Non-simple selectors list in the CSS Overview tool](./images/non-simple-selectors-in-css-overview.png)

> From here, you can further analyze the impact of your changes and individual selector performance with the **Selector Stats** feature in the **Performance** tool.

Author: ```suggestion
From here, you can further analyze the impact of your changes and individual selector performance by using the **Selector Stats** feature in the **Performance** tool.
```

###### See also

> * [CSS selectors | MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors#structure_of_a_selector)

Author: ```suggestion
* [[Structure of a selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors#structure_of_a_selector)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors#structure_of_a_selector) in _CSS selectors_.
```

   ![Microsoft Edge, with the TODO list demo app and DevTools, showing the Elements tool, with the color-contrast issue element selected](images/css-overview-tool-contrast-issues-elements-tool.png)

To help fix contrast issues, check out the [Text contrast](../accessibility/reference.md#text-contrast) section of the accessibility-testing DevTools features.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also

> * [CSS selectors | MDN web docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors#structure_of_a_selector)

Author: ```suggestion
* [[Structure of a selector](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors#structure_of_a_selector)](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Selectors#structure_of_a_selector) in _CSS selectors_.
```
